documentation/enterprise/COMPLIANCE_SECURITY.md, before:

# Conxian Enterprise Compliance & Security

## Overview

Conxian provides institutional-grade compliance and security infrastructure designed to meet the stringent requirements of regulated financial institutions, professional trading firms, and enterprise users. This document outlines our comprehensive compliance framework, security measures, and regulatory certifications.

## Regulatory Compliance Framework

### FATF Compliance (Anti-Money Laundering)

#### Travel Rule Implementation
- **Transaction Monitoring**: All transactions ≥ €15,000 automatically flagged
- **VASPs Registry**: Integrated with FATF-compliant VASP identification systems
- **Information Sharing**: Secure P2P data exchange with counterparties
- **Record Keeping**: 5-year retention of all transaction records

#### AML Controls
```typescript
// Enhanced AML transaction monitoring
const transaction = {
  amount: 15000,
  currency: 'EUR',
  sender: {
    name: 'John Doe',
    address: '123 Main St',
    country: 'DE'
  },
  receiver: {
    name: 'Jane Smith',
    wallet: 'SP2J6ZY48GV1EZ5V2V5RB9MP66SW86PYKKNRV9EJ7',
    country: 'FR'
  }
};

// Automatic compliance check
const complianceResult = await checkAMLCompliance(transaction);
```

### OFAC Sanctions Compliance

#### Sanctions Screening
- **Real-time Screening**: All addresses checked against OFAC SDN list
- **Enhanced Due Diligence**: PEP and sanctions screening for high-risk transactions
- **Transaction Blocking**: Automatic rejection of sanctioned addresses
- **Reporting**: Suspicious activity reports filed within 30 days

#### Screening Implementation
```typescript
// OFAC sanctions screening
const screening = await screenAddress(walletAddress);

if (screening.status === 'blocked') {
  throw new Error('Address on OFAC sanctions list');
}

// Enhanced due diligence for high-value transactions
if (transaction.amount > 10000) {
  const edd = await enhancedDueDiligence(walletAddress);
  if (edd.riskLevel === 'high') {
    await requireManualApproval(transaction);
  }
}
```

### GDPR Compliance (Data Protection)

#### Data Processing Principles
- **Lawfulness**: All data processing has legal basis
- **Purpose Limitation**: Data used only for stated purposes
- **Data Minimization**: Only necessary data collected
- **Accuracy**: Data kept up-to-date and accurate
- **Storage Limitation**: Data retained only as long as necessary
- **Integrity & Confidentiality**: Data protected against unauthorized access
- **Accountability**: Demonstrable compliance with principles

#### Data Subject Rights
- **Right of Access**: Users can request their data
- **Right to Rectification**: Users can correct inaccurate data
- **Right to Erasure**: "Right to be forgotten" implementation
- **Right to Data Portability**: Data export in machine-readable format
- **Right to Object**: Users can object to processing

#### GDPR Implementation
```typescript
// GDPR-compliant data handling
const userData = {
  walletAddress: 'SP2J6ZY48GV1EZ5V2V5RB9MP66SW86PYKKNRV9EJ7',
  kycStatus: 'verified',
  transactionHistory: [...],
  lastActivity: new Date()
};

// Data export request
app.post('/api/gdpr/export', async (req, res) => {
  const { walletAddress } = req.body;
  const data = await exportUserData(walletAddress);

  // Log data access for audit trail
  await logDataAccess(walletAddress, 'export', req.ip);

  res.json({
    data: encryptData(data),
    timestamp: new Date(),
    signature: signData(data)
  });
});
```

### SOC 2 Type II Compliance

#### Security Criteria
- **Access Controls**: Multi-factor authentication, role-based access
- **Change Management**: Formal change approval processes
- **Risk Mitigation**: Regular risk assessments and controls
- **Logical Access**: Secure authentication and authorization
- **System Operations**: 24/7 monitoring and incident response

#### Availability Criteria
- **Performance Monitoring**: Real-time system performance tracking
- **Disaster Recovery**: Comprehensive backup and recovery procedures
- **Business Continuity**: Continuity planning and testing
- **Capacity Management**: Scalable infrastructure planning

#### Processing Integrity Criteria
- **Data Accuracy**: Validation and verification of data inputs
- **Processing Completeness**: Ensuring all transactions are processed
- **System Performance**: Monitoring and optimizing system performance

#### Confidentiality Criteria
- **Data Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- **Access Logging**: Comprehensive audit trails for data access
- **Data Classification**: Proper classification and handling procedures

### MiCA Compliance (EU Markets in Crypto-Assets)

#### Crypto-Asset Service Provider Requirements
- **Authorization**: Registered as CASP with competent authorities
- **Capital Requirements**: Minimum capital requirements maintained
- **Governance**: Fit and proper management requirements
- **Operational Resilience**: Robust systems and controls

#### White Paper Requirements
- **Accurate Information**: All information in white papers must be accurate
- **Warning Notices**: Prominent risk warnings for crypto investments
- **Marketing Communications**: Compliant marketing and advertising

#### Consumer Protection
- **Investment Warnings**: Clear risk disclosures
- **Cooling-off Periods**: Right of withdrawal for certain transactions
- **Complaint Handling**: Effective complaint resolution procedures

## Security Framework

### Multi-Layer Security Architecture

#### Network Security
- **DDoS Protection**: Cloudflare Enterprise DDoS mitigation
- **Web Application Firewall**: Advanced threat detection and blocking
- **API Rate Limiting**: Protection against abuse and attacks
- **IP Whitelisting**: Restricted access for enterprise clients

#### Application Security
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive input sanitization and validation
- **Authentication**: Multi-factor authentication for all privileged access
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control with principle of least privilege
- **Session Management**: Secure session handling and timeout policies

#### Data Security
- **Encryption at Rest**: AES-256 encryption for all stored data
- **Encryption in Transit**: TLS 1.3 for all network communications
- **Key Management**: Hardware Security Modules (HSMs) for cryptographic keys
- **Data Masking**: Sensitive data masked in logs and displays

### Incident Response

#### Incident Response Plan
1. **Detection**: 24/7 monitoring and automated alerting
2. **Assessment**: Rapid triage and impact assessment
3. **Containment**: Immediate isolation of affected systems
4. **Recovery**: Restored systems from clean backups
5. **Lessons Learned**: Post-incident analysis and improvements

#### Security Incident Categories
- **Critical**: System compromise, data breach, service outage
- **High**: Unauthorized access, suspicious activity
- **Medium**: Policy violations, minor security events
- **Low**: False positives, routine security events

#### Response Times
- **Critical**: Response within 15 minutes, resolution within 4 hours
- **High**: Response within 1 hour, resolution within 24 hours
- **Medium**: Response within 4 hours, resolution within 72 hours
- **Low**: Response within 24 hours, best effort resolution

### Penetration Testing & Audits

#### Regular Security Assessments
- **Quarterly Penetration Testing**: External security firms
- **Annual Comprehensive Audit**: Full security assessment
- **Continuous Vulnerability Scanning**: Automated security monitoring
- **Code Review**: Security-focused code reviews for all changes

#### Audit Findings Tracking
```typescript
// Security vulnerability tracking
const vulnerability = {
  id: 'SEC-2025-001',
  severity: 'high',
  title: 'API Rate Limiting Bypass',
  description: 'Potential DoS vulnerability in rate limiting logic',
  status: 'mitigated',
  mitigation: 'Implemented distributed rate limiting',
  auditor: 'External Security Firm',
  dateReported: '2025-10-15',
  dateResolved: '2025-10-20'
};
```

## Enterprise Access Controls

### Account Tiers

#### Standard Institutional
- Basic KYC verification
- Standard transaction limits
- Basic reporting capabilities

#### Professional Trading
- Enhanced KYC with source of funds verification
- Higher transaction limits
- Advanced analytics and reporting

#### Enterprise Premier
- Full compliance integration
- Unlimited transaction limits
- Dedicated support and custom integrations
- White-label capabilities

### Access Control Implementation

#### Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
```typescript
const enterpriseRoles = {
  'viewer': ['read:portfolio', 'read:analytics'],
  'trader': ['viewer', 'trade:execute', 'trade:cancel'],
  'manager': ['trader', 'manage:users', 'approve:trades'],
  'admin': ['manager', 'admin:system', 'admin:compliance']
};

const permissions = {
  'read:portfolio': 'View portfolio positions',
  'trade:execute': 'Execute trades',
  'manage:users': 'Manage team members',
  'admin:system': 'System administration'
};
```

#### Multi-Signature Requirements
```typescript
// Multi-signature transaction approval
const multiSigTransaction = {
  id: 'TXN-2025-001',
  type: 'large-trade',
  amount: 1000000,
  approvals: {
    required: 3,
    current: 2,
    approvers: [
      { user: 'alice@institution.com', status: 'approved' },
      { user: 'bob@institution.com', status: 'approved' },
      { user: 'charlie@institution.com', status: 'pending' }
    ]
  },
  compliance: {
    amlCheck: 'passed',
    sanctionsCheck: 'passed',
    exposureCheck: 'passed'
  }
};
```

## Risk Management Framework

### Transaction Risk Scoring
- **Amount-based Scoring**: Higher amounts trigger enhanced checks
- **Velocity Analysis**: Unusual transaction patterns flagged
- **Geographic Risk**: Transactions from high-risk jurisdictions
- **Counterparty Risk**: Risk assessment of transaction counterparties

### Portfolio Risk Monitoring
- **Value at Risk (VaR)**: Daily portfolio risk calculations
- **Stress Testing**: Regular portfolio stress testing scenarios
- **Liquidity Risk**: Monitoring of portfolio liquidity
- **Concentration Risk**: Limits on single asset exposures

### Operational Risk Controls
- **Business Continuity Planning**: Comprehensive disaster recovery
- **Vendor Risk Management**: Third-party risk assessments
- **Insurance Coverage**: Cyber insurance and operational insurance
- **Regulatory Reporting**: Automated regulatory filings

## Certification Status

### Current Certifications
- **SOC 2 Type II**: In Progress (Expected Q1 2026)
- **ISO 27001**: In Progress (Expected Q2 2026)
- **PCI DSS**: Planned for Q3 2026
- **FATF Compliance**: Compliant (Annual audits)

### Third-Party Audit Reports
- **Security Audits**: Quarterly by leading blockchain security firms
- **Compliance Audits**: Annual regulatory compliance assessments
- **Performance Audits**: Monthly system performance and availability audits

### Audit Report Access
Enterprise clients receive access to:
- Real-time audit dashboard
- Historical audit reports
- Compliance status updates
- Incident reports and remediation plans

## Enterprise Support

### Dedicated Support Channels
- **Enterprise Portal**: 24/7 self-service knowledge base
- **Priority Support**: < 2 hour response time for critical issues
- **Dedicated Account Manager**: Single point of contact for all needs
- **Technical Account Team**: Specialized blockchain and DeFi expertise

### Service Level Agreements
- **System Availability**: 99.9% uptime guarantee
- **Incident Response**: < 15 minutes for critical security incidents
- **Feature Requests**: 30-day review period for enterprise feature requests
- **Custom Integrations**: Dedicated development resources for custom needs

### Communication Protocols
- **Security Advisories**: Immediate notification of security updates
- **Maintenance Windows**: Scheduled 48 hours in advance
- **Emergency Communications**: Multiple channels for critical updates
- **Regulatory Updates**: Proactive communication of regulatory changes

This comprehensive compliance and security framework ensures that Conxian meets the highest standards required by regulated financial institutions while maintaining the flexibility and innovation of decentralized finance.

Commit message:

docs(docs): comprehensive documentation update

documentation/enterprise/COMPLIANCE_SECURITY.md, after:

# Conxian Enterprise Compliance & Security

## Overview

Conxian provides institutional-grade compliance and security infrastructure designed to meet the stringent requirements of regulated financial institutions, professional trading firms, and enterprise users. This document outlines our comprehensive compliance framework, security measures, and regulatory certifications.

> **Maturity & Availability (as of 2025-12-06)**
> - The underlying Conxian Protocol is currently in a **stabilization & alignment phase on testnet** and is **not yet production-ready for mainnet**.
> - The controls, processes, and certifications described here represent the **target compliance and security design** for future institutional deployments.
> - For an up-to-date view of which services are live, in pilot, or planned, see `documentation/SERVICE_CATALOG.md` and `documentation/ENTERPRISE_BUY_OVERVIEW.md`.

## Regulatory Compliance Framework

### FATF Compliance (Anti-Money Laundering)

#### Travel Rule Implementation
- **Transaction Monitoring**: All transactions ≥ €15,000 automatically flagged
- **VASPs Registry**: Integrated with FATF-compliant VASP identification systems
- **Information Sharing**: Secure P2P data exchange with counterparties
- **Record Keeping**: 5-year retention of all transaction records

#### AML Controls
```typescript
// Enhanced AML transaction monitoring
const transaction = {
  amount: 15000,
  currency: 'EUR',
  sender: {
    name: 'John Doe',
    address: '123 Main St',
    country: 'DE'
  },
  receiver: {
    name: 'Jane Smith',
    wallet: 'SP2J6ZY48GV1EZ5V2V5RB9MP66SW86PYKKNRV9EJ7',
    country: 'FR'
  }
};

// Automatic compliance check
const complianceResult = await checkAMLCompliance(transaction);
```

### OFAC Sanctions Compliance

#### Sanctions Screening
- **Real-time Screening**: All addresses checked against OFAC SDN list
- **Enhanced Due Diligence**: PEP and sanctions screening for high-risk transactions
- **Transaction Blocking**: Automatic rejection of sanctioned addresses
- **Reporting**: Suspicious activity reports filed within 30 days

#### Screening Implementation
```typescript
// OFAC sanctions screening
const screening = await screenAddress(walletAddress);

if (screening.status === 'blocked') {
  throw new Error('Address on OFAC sanctions list');
}

// Enhanced due diligence for high-value transactions
if (transaction.amount > 10000) {
  const edd = await enhancedDueDiligence(walletAddress);
  if (edd.riskLevel === 'high') {
    await requireManualApproval(transaction);
  }
}
```

### GDPR Compliance (Data Protection)

#### Data Processing Principles
- **Lawfulness**: All data processing has legal basis
- **Purpose Limitation**: Data used only for stated purposes
- **Data Minimization**: Only necessary data collected
- **Accuracy**: Data kept up-to-date and accurate
- **Storage Limitation**: Data retained only as long as necessary
- **Integrity & Confidentiality**: Data protected against unauthorized access
- **Accountability**: Demonstrable compliance with principles

#### Data Subject Rights
- **Right of Access**: Users can request their data
- **Right to Rectification**: Users can correct inaccurate data
- **Right to Erasure**: "Right to be forgotten" implementation
- **Right to Data Portability**: Data export in machine-readable format
- **Right to Object**: Users can object to processing

#### GDPR Implementation
```typescript
// GDPR-compliant data handling
const userData = {
  walletAddress: 'SP2J6ZY48GV1EZ5V2V5RB9MP66SW86PYKKNRV9EJ7',
  kycStatus: 'verified',
  transactionHistory: [...],
  lastActivity: new Date()
};

// Data export request
app.post('/api/gdpr/export', async (req, res) => {
  const { walletAddress } = req.body;
  const data = await exportUserData(walletAddress);

  // Log data access for audit trail
  await logDataAccess(walletAddress, 'export', req.ip);

  res.json({
    data: encryptData(data),
    timestamp: new Date(),
    signature: signData(data)
  });
});
```

### SOC 2 Type II Compliance

#### Security Criteria
- **Access Controls**: Multi-factor authentication, role-based access
- **Change Management**: Formal change approval processes
- **Risk Mitigation**: Regular risk assessments and controls
- **Logical Access**: Secure authentication and authorization
- **System Operations**: 24/7 monitoring and incident response

#### Availability Criteria
- **Performance Monitoring**: Real-time system performance tracking
- **Disaster Recovery**: Comprehensive backup and recovery procedures
- **Business Continuity**: Continuity planning and testing
- **Capacity Management**: Scalable infrastructure planning

#### Processing Integrity Criteria
- **Data Accuracy**: Validation and verification of data inputs
- **Processing Completeness**: Ensuring all transactions are processed
- **System Performance**: Monitoring and optimizing system performance

#### Confidentiality Criteria
- **Data Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- **Access Logging**: Comprehensive audit trails for data access
- **Data Classification**: Proper classification and handling procedures

### MiCA Compliance (EU Markets in Crypto-Assets)

#### Crypto-Asset Service Provider Requirements
- **Authorization**: Registered as CASP with competent authorities
- **Capital Requirements**: Minimum capital requirements maintained
- **Governance**: Fit and proper management requirements
- **Operational Resilience**: Robust systems and controls

#### White Paper Requirements
- **Accurate Information**: All information in white papers must be accurate
- **Warning Notices**: Prominent risk warnings for crypto investments
- **Marketing Communications**: Compliant marketing and advertising

#### Consumer Protection
- **Investment Warnings**: Clear risk disclosures
- **Cooling-off Periods**: Right of withdrawal for certain transactions
- **Complaint Handling**: Effective complaint resolution procedures

## Security Framework

### Multi-Layer Security Architecture

#### Network Security
- **DDoS Protection**: Cloudflare Enterprise DDoS mitigation
- **Web Application Firewall**: Advanced threat detection and blocking
- **API Rate Limiting**: Protection against abuse and attacks
- **IP Whitelisting**: Restricted access for enterprise clients

#### Application Security
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive input sanitization and validation
- **Authentication**: Multi-factor authentication for all privileged access
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control with principle of least privilege
- **Session Management**: Secure session handling and timeout policies

#### Data Security
- **Encryption at Rest**: AES-256 encryption for all stored data
- **Encryption in Transit**: TLS 1.3 for all network communications
- **Key Management**: Hardware Security Modules (HSMs) for cryptographic keys
- **Data Masking**: Sensitive data masked in logs and displays

### Incident Response

#### Incident Response Plan
1. **Detection**: 24/7 monitoring and automated alerting
2. **Assessment**: Rapid triage and impact assessment
3. **Containment**: Immediate isolation of affected systems
4. **Recovery**: Restored systems from clean backups
5. **Lessons Learned**: Post-incident analysis and improvements

#### Security Incident Categories
- **Critical**: System compromise, data breach, service outage
- **High**: Unauthorized access, suspicious activity
- **Medium**: Policy violations, minor security events
- **Low**: False positives, routine security events

#### Response Times
- **Critical**: Response within 15 minutes, resolution within 4 hours
- **High**: Response within 1 hour, resolution within 24 hours
- **Medium**: Response within 4 hours, resolution within 72 hours
- **Low**: Response within 24 hours, best effort resolution

### Penetration Testing & Audits

#### Regular Security Assessments
- **Quarterly Penetration Testing**: External security firms
- **Annual Comprehensive Audit**: Full security assessment
- **Continuous Vulnerability Scanning**: Automated security monitoring
- **Code Review**: Security-focused code reviews for all changes

#### Audit Findings Tracking
```typescript
// Security vulnerability tracking
const vulnerability = {
  id: 'SEC-2025-001',
  severity: 'high',
  title: 'API Rate Limiting Bypass',
  description: 'Potential DoS vulnerability in rate limiting logic',
  status: 'mitigated',
  mitigation: 'Implemented distributed rate limiting',
  auditor: 'External Security Firm',
  dateReported: '2025-10-15',
  dateResolved: '2025-10-20'
};
```

## Enterprise Access Controls

### Account Tiers

#### Standard Institutional
- Basic KYC verification
- Standard transaction limits
- Basic reporting capabilities

#### Professional Trading
- Enhanced KYC with source of funds verification
- Higher transaction limits
- Advanced analytics and reporting

#### Enterprise Premier
- Full compliance integration
- Unlimited transaction limits
- Dedicated support and custom integrations
- White-label capabilities

### Access Control Implementation

#### Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
```typescript
const enterpriseRoles = {
  'viewer': ['read:portfolio', 'read:analytics'],
  'trader': ['viewer', 'trade:execute', 'trade:cancel'],
  'manager': ['trader', 'manage:users', 'approve:trades'],
  'admin': ['manager', 'admin:system', 'admin:compliance']
};

const permissions = {
  'read:portfolio': 'View portfolio positions',
  'trade:execute': 'Execute trades',
  'manage:users': 'Manage team members',
  'admin:system': 'System administration'
};
```

#### Multi-Signature Requirements
```typescript
// Multi-signature transaction approval
const multiSigTransaction = {
  id: 'TXN-2025-001',
  type: 'large-trade',
  amount: 1000000,
  approvals: {
    required: 3,
    current: 2,
    approvers: [
      { user: 'alice@institution.com', status: 'approved' },
      { user: 'bob@institution.com', status: 'approved' },
      { user: 'charlie@institution.com', status: 'pending' }
    ]
  },
  compliance: {
    amlCheck: 'passed',
    sanctionsCheck: 'passed',
    exposureCheck: 'passed'
  }
};
```

## Risk Management Framework

### Transaction Risk Scoring
- **Amount-based Scoring**: Higher amounts trigger enhanced checks
- **Velocity Analysis**: Unusual transaction patterns flagged
- **Geographic Risk**: Transactions from high-risk jurisdictions
- **Counterparty Risk**: Risk assessment of transaction counterparties

### Portfolio Risk Monitoring
- **Value at Risk (VaR)**: Daily portfolio risk calculations
- **Stress Testing**: Regular portfolio stress testing scenarios
- **Liquidity Risk**: Monitoring of portfolio liquidity
- **Concentration Risk**: Limits on single asset exposures

### Operational Risk Controls
- **Business Continuity Planning**: Comprehensive disaster recovery
- **Vendor Risk Management**: Third-party risk assessments
- **Insurance Coverage**: Cyber insurance and operational insurance
- **Regulatory Reporting**: Automated regulatory filings

## Certification Status

### Current Certifications
- **SOC 2 Type II**: In Progress (Expected Q1 2026)
- **ISO 27001**: In Progress (Expected Q2 2026)
- **PCI DSS**: Planned for Q3 2026
- **FATF Compliance**: Compliant (Annual audits)

### Third-Party Audit Reports
- **Security Audits**: Quarterly by leading blockchain security firms
- **Compliance Audits**: Annual regulatory compliance assessments
- **Performance Audits**: Monthly system performance and availability audits

### Audit Report Access
Enterprise clients receive access to:
- Real-time audit dashboard
- Historical audit reports
- Compliance status updates
- Incident reports and remediation plans

## Enterprise Support

### Dedicated Support Channels
- **Enterprise Portal**: 24/7 self-service knowledge base
- **Priority Support**: < 2 hour response time for critical issues
- **Dedicated Account Manager**: Single point of contact for all needs
- **Technical Account Team**: Specialized blockchain and DeFi expertise

### Service Level Agreements
- **System Availability**: 99.9% uptime guarantee
- **Incident Response**: < 15 minutes for critical security incidents
- **Feature Requests**: 30-day review period for enterprise feature requests
- **Custom Integrations**: Dedicated development resources for custom needs

### Communication Protocols
- **Security Advisories**: Immediate notification of security updates
- **Maintenance Windows**: Scheduled 48 hours in advance
- **Emergency Communications**: Multiple channels for critical updates
- **Regulatory Updates**: Proactive communication of regulatory changes

This comprehensive compliance and security framework ensures that Conxian meets the highest standards required by regulated financial institutions while maintaining the flexibility and innovation of decentralized finance.
